# Changelog

## 0.2.2

### Patch Changes

- 97fcbb3: Round module type percentages to two decimal places

## 0.2.1

### Patch Changes

- a64e6d8: Update README.md to include information about the new `detailed` configuration option.

## 0.2.0

Besides the new features listed below, this release changes some default behaviors. Now, sonda will not read external source maps or calculate file sizes after compression with GZIP and Brotli. If you want to use these features, use the following new configuration options:

```json
{
  "detailed": true,
  "gzip": true,
  "brotli": true
}
```

Please refer to README.md for more information.

### Minor Changes

- Add switch to toggle between uncompressed, GZIP, and Brotli treemap diagrams.
- Do not read dependency source maps by default. Use the `detailed` configuration option to read them.
- Update modal for assets to display how much code comes from ESM, CJS, or unknown sources.
- Improve GZIP and Brotli compression size estimations instead of showing worst-case sizes.
- Add modal for assets that displays the bundled, GZIP, and Brotli sizes.
- Update modal for assets to list external dependencies.
- Do not calculate GZIP and Brotli sizes by default. Use the `gzip` and `brotli` configuration options to calculate them.

### Patch Changes

- Correctly load source maps when `sourceMappingURL` contains URL params.
- Remove unnecessary `#__PURE__` comments.

## 0.1.4

- Show "No data to display" with a helpful message when there is no data to display in the report.
- Prevent black boxes in tree maps with large `[unassigned]` tiles.

## 0.1.3

- Show the approximate file and folder size after GZIP and Brotli compression

## 0.1.2

- Use the `open` package to open the generated reports.

## 0.1.1

- Use `execFileSync` instead of `exec` to prevent potential shell injection when the path contains characters that the shell interprets in a special way, for instance quotes and spaces.

## 0.1.0

- Initial release of sonda that allowed generating an `'html'` and `'json'` report for bundles generated by Vite, Rollup, Webpack, and esbuild.
