---
outline: deep
---

# What is Sonda?

Sonda is a universal tool for visualizing and analyzing JavaScript and CSS assets. It helps you understand the structure of your assets, examine dependencies, identify potential issues, and optimize them for better performance.

Unlike other tools, Sonda is not tied to a specific bundler. Instead, it analyzes the source maps of the JavaScript and CSS assets directly. This approach ensures greater accuracy and compatibility with all major bundlers and JavaScript frameworks.

To see a sample report, check out the <a href="/demo.html" target="_blank">demo</a> page.

## Key features

- **Works with major bundlers:** It has integrations for Vite, Rollup, Rolldown, webpack, Rspack, and esbuild delivering the same great experience regardless of your toolchain.
- **Works with major frameworks:** It supports Next.js, Nuxt, Astro, and other popular frameworks.
- **Highly accurate:** By using source maps, it provides precise insights into your final bundles, reflecting tree-shaking and minification.
- **Detailed insights:** It can show sizes before and after compression, dependency graphs, download time estimates, and more.
- **Flexible report formats:** It can generate reports in HTML for visualization or JSON for automation.
- **Used code highlights:** It allows you to inspect the codes included in your final bundles.
- **Issue detection:** It can spot and help you resolve common issues like duplicated dependencies.

## Why choose Sonda?

### Accuracy

Most bundle analyzers rely on intermediate data from bundlers, leading to inaccuracies such as overestimated sizes. Sonda solves this by analyzing the final source maps generated by the bundler. This ensures that the sizes reported are as close as possible to the actual sizes on disk.

### Compatibility

By leveraging source maps, Sonda reduces reliance on specific bundler internals, making it highly adaptable. This ensures compatibility with all major bundlers and frameworks, providing a consistent and seamless experience across different toolchains.

### Developer focus

Sonda provides detailed insights, helping you debug your bundles effectively. Whether you want to inspect the code included in the bundle, analyze compression sizes, or identify redundant dependencies, Sonda equips you with the tools you need.
